Add testing documentation (#81)
giantswarm/promtail-app: TESTING.md

# How to test

## Install the new Promtail version

* Choose a test cluster: `opsctl login gauss`

> * Suspend these 2 flux kustomizations:`flux suspend kustomization -n flux-giantswarm collection; flux suspend kustomization -n flux-giantswarm flux`

Author: Ok, I had a doubt about that

### The "easy" way

* Deploy the new Promtail version using opsctl (replace `test-branch` with your branch's name): `opsctl deploy --use-kubeconfig promtail-app@test-branch`

### The "hard" way

If for some reason you can't use the `opsctl deploy` command or don't want to:

> * Either create a draft PR or directly use your branch

Reviewer: Does the "easy" way work without that? Easy way also relies on the apps pushed to the test catalogs, and AFAIK this is done on PR. So I'd say this line goes before chosing between easy/hard.

Author: True, moving this

* Look at the build step `ci/circleci: package and push promtail chart`, step `Push chart archive to OCI registry app catalog`
    * Take note of pushed image name

> * Edit the `promtail` app: `kubectl edit -n giantswarm promtail`

Reviewer 2: `kubectl edit -n giantswarm promtail` => `kubectl edit app -n giantswarm promtail`

Author: I found myself many times in a situation where I had no choice but using the "hard way" to install the new version. That's why I think it's a good think to have it written for anyone who might encounter the same issue

Reviewer 3: I'm fine with the curretn structure but I'd like if we have the same base template ;)

Reviewer 3: That would be nice yes :)

Author: Created a PR here : https://github.com/giantswarm/giantswarm/pull/25200

* Update catalog name and image version according to the image name shown in build logs
* Make sure promtail is deployed with the right version: `kubectl get app -n giantswarm promtail`

## Make sure Promtail is scraped by prometheus

> * Open prometheus on the MC from the installation: `opsctl open -i gauss -a pometheus --workload-cluster gauss`

Reviewer 2: `pometheus` => `prometheus`

Author: Done

* You might want to take screenshots as it could prove useful for the PR.
* Go to the *Graph* section and execute the following query: `promtail_build_info`. As for the previous step, you should see as many metrics as there are nodes on the cluster (8 on gauss) with value 1.
* You might take screenshots as well.

## Make sure Loki gets logs from installation

* Open the grafana instance from gorilla: `opsctl open -i gorilla -a grafana`
* Go to the *Explore* section and select `Loki` as datasource.
* Execute a query based on the following example: `sum(count_over_time({installation="gauss", cluster_id="gauss", hostname=~"ip-.*.eu-west-1.compute.internal"}[10m])) by (hostname)`
* You should see as many different colors as there are nodes on the targeted cluster (8 for gauss). Take a screenshot for the PR.
* Execute another query based on this example: `{installation="gauss", cluster_id="gauss", pod=~"k8s-api-server-ip-.*"}`
* You should see logs from the api-server pods on the targeted cluster. Take a screenshot for the PR.

## Clean environment

> * Once you're finished testing, simply resume flux: `flux resume kustomization -n flux-giantswarm collection; flux resume kustomization -n flux-giantswarm flux`. (You might consider not resuming flux when working on gauss as many users might need it to stay suspended)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Once you're finished testing, simply resume flux: `flux resume kustomization -n flux-giantswarm collection; flux resume kustomization -n flux-giantswarm flux`. (You might consider not resuming flux when working on test installations as many users might need it to stay suspended)
```
